Dynamic Inconsistency-aware DeepFake Video Detection
Ziheng Hu1 , Hongtao Xie1∗ , Yuxin Wang1 , Jiahong Li2 , Zhongyuan Wang2 and Yongdong
Zhang1
1University of Science and Technology of China
2Kuaishou Technology
{hzh519, wangyx58}@mail.ustc.edu.cn,{htxie, zhyd73}@ustc.edu.cn,{lijiahong,
wangzhongyuan}@kuaishou.com
Abstract
The spread of DeepFake videos causes a serious
threat to information security, calling for effective
detection methods to distinguish them. However,
the performance of recent frame-based detection
methods become limited due to their ignorance of
the inter-frame inconsistency of fake videos. In this
paper, we propose a novel Dynamic Inconsistency-
aware Network to handle the inconsistent prob-
lem, which uses a Cross-Reference module (CRM)
to capture both the global and local inter-frame
inconsistencies. The CRM contains two paral-
lel branches. The ﬁrst branch takes faces from
adjacent frames as input, and calculates a struc-
ture similarity map for a global inconsistency rep-
resentation. The second branch only focuses on
the inter-frame variation of independent critical re-
gions, which captures the local inconsistency. To
the best of our knowledge, this is the ﬁrst work to
totally use the inter-frame inconsistency informa-
tion from the global and local perspectives. Com-
pared with existing methods, our model provides a
more accurate and robust detection on FaceF oren-
sics++, DFDC-preview and Celeb-DFv2 datasets.
1 Introduction
With recent advances of deep learning theories like GANs
[Goodfellow et al., 2014], a series of technologies commonly
known as DeepFake have emerged, which allow automation
of facial expression transformation and face swapping pos-
sible. Though these technologies can make some entertain-
ment videos, they could also be used to make misinformation
for fraudulent or malicious purposes. Thus, there is an urgent
need for automatic detection methods.
As shown in Figure 1, different from the natural variation
between real video frames, existing face manipulation tools
which operate on single frame destroy the consistency be-
tween adjacent frames and lead to pixel jitter in fake videos.
In this paper, we deﬁne this problem as an Inconsistent Prob-
lem, this is an important attribute that distinguishes fake
videos from real videos. Early works [Fridrich, 2012] focus
∗Corresponding Author.
Real(a)
Fake(a)
Fake(b)
Figure 1: The adjacent frames of the real video change naturally,
while the fake video has the inter-frame inconsistency. As shown in
example Fake(a), although each frame is quite realistic, there is pixel
jitter around eyes and mouth (can be obviously seen by playing these
frames continuously). Example Fake(b) shows the inconsistency of
artifacts of the same area between adjacent frames.
on extracting hand-crafted features and employing classiﬁers
(e.g., SVM) to detect fake videos. These traditional methods
are less effective with more realistic faces generated. Ben-
eﬁting from the development of deep learning, some recent
works [Yang et al., 2019; Li et al., 2018 ] use Convolutional
Neural Network (CNN) on forgery detection by analysis of
physiological characteristics (e.g., headpose, eye blink). Be-
sides, some data-driven CNN-based methods [Chollet, 2017;
Afchar et al., 2018 ] are also popular, which take a large
amount of independent frames to train classiﬁers without spe-
ciﬁc physiological characteristics. In summary, the Inconsis-
tent Problem of fake videos has not received enough atten-
tion in existing detection methods. The performance of these
methods become limited without considering inter-frame in-
consistency information.
In this paper, we propose a novel Dynamic Inconsistency-
aware Network for DeepFake video detection by utilizing
the inconsistency information between adjacent frames. As
shown in Figure 2, the DIANet consists of three modules:
Feature Extracting module, Cross-Reference module(CRM)
and Classiﬁcation network. Speciﬁcally, the DIANet takes a
pair of frames as input and obtains their feature representa-
tions through the Feature Extracing module. Then the pro-
posed CRM is adopted to capture both the global and local
inconsistencies between adjacent frames. The CRM contains
two parallel branches which are called the Global Correlation
Proceedings of the Thirtieth International Joint Conference on Artiﬁcial Intelligence (IJCAI-21)
736
Feature 
Extracting
module
 Local Association
branch
Cross-Reference module
Classification
network
Global Correlation 
branch
Real
Fake
Reference frame
Target frame
4 Local areas coordinates
Pipeline of our DIANet
Preprocessing
𝑉1
𝑉2
Concatenate
𝑊1
𝐿1
Video
Figure 2: The pipeline of the DIANet.
branch (GCB) and the Local Association branch (LAB). The
GCB takes faces from adjacent frames as input, and calcu-
lates a structure similarity map for global inconsistency rep-
resentation. In contrast, the LAB only focuses on inter-frame
association of independent critical regions to capture local in-
consistency. Finally, the global and local inter-frame incon-
sistencies are combined together and sent into the Classiﬁca-
tion network for classiﬁcation.
In experiments, we quantitatively verify the effective-
ness of utilizing inconsistency information between adjacent
frames. Beneﬁting from exploring the global and local incon-
sistencies, our model outperforms existing methods on Face-
F orensics++(FF++) [Rossler et al., 2019 ], DFDC-preview
[Dolhansky et al., 2019 ] and shows a good rubustness to
degradation of video quality and unseen manipulation tech-
niques.
The major contributions of our paper include:
• The DIANet is specially designed to explore the inter-
frame inconsistency information, which provides a more
powerful approach to model the inter frame relationship.
• A novel Cross-Reference module is proposed to cap-
ture the global structure inconsistency and local incon-
sistency through two parallel branches, which aims to
give a complete and robust representation to the incon-
sistency information between two adjacent frames.
• Our model outperforms existing methods on popular
datasets and generalizes well on videos of low quality
and unseen manipualtion techniques.
2 Related Work
2.1 DeepFake Video Detection
Current DeepFake detection algorithms roughly fall into two
branches: image-based methods and video-based methods.
Image-based Methods
Early image-based methods [Fridrich, 2012 ] are driven by
hand-crafted features or statistical artifacts that occur dur-
ing image formation. Some classiﬁers (e.g., SVM) are em-
ployed to judge whether a video is real or fake. However,
fake faces are more and more realistic with the emergence
of new manipulation tools, traditional image-based methods
become less effective.
With the development of deep learning [Chollet, 2017;
He et al., 2016; Wang et al., 2020a; Wang et al., 2020b ],
CNN-based methods[Yang et al., 2019; Afchar et al., 2018;
Zhou et al., 2017; Rossler et al., 2019; Shang et al., 2021 ]
become popular. Part of CNN-based methods are based on
artifacts of physiological characteristics. [Yang et al., 2019 ]
proposed an approach to detect by utilizing incoherent head
poses in fake videos. Another part of methods are data-
driven without relying on any speciﬁc physiological char-
acteristics. Researchers are trying various CNN structures,
such as Xception [Chollet, 2017 ], MesoNet [Afchar et al.,
2018] and Two-stream [Zhou et al., 2017 ]. Some methods
[Rahmouni et al., 2017; Bayar and Stamm, 2016 ] put for-
ward some improvments on the convolutional layer or pool-
ing layer. Many methods use transfer learning and ﬁne-tuning
to take advantage of pretrained models [Raja et al., 2017;
Cozzolino et al., 2018]. Further more, [Nguyen et al., 2019]
segments the tampered region while classifying. However,
these methods rely on features within a single frame, without
consideration of correlation information across frames.
Video-based Methods
The second category of detection methods are based on a se-
quence of frames. [Li et al., 2018 ] developed a network for
detecting eye blinking by using a temporal approach. Other
video-based methods include using Recurrent Neural Net-
work (RNN) [Sabir et al., 2019 ]. These methods take a se-
quence of frames as input to RNN to tell whether the video
is real or fake. Though some temporal information is uti-
lized, they ignore the speciﬁc inconsistency information be-
tween adjacent frames of fake videos. Different from them,
our method explore the inconsistency information by a novel
cross-reference module from the global and local perspec-
tives.
2.2 Attention Mechanism in Neural Network
Various attention mechanisms which are inspired by human
perception [Denil et al., 2012] have been widely studied. The
attention mechanism enables neural network to pay attention
to a speciﬁc subset of inputs. In addition, many works pro-
pose spatial and channel-wise mechanism to pay attention to
part of image dynamically. In this way, the trained models
can focus on regions or segments selectively. Different from
these works, our cross reference mechanism is used to capture
the global and local relationship across different frames.
3 Proposed Method
We propose the DIANet for effective DeepFake video detec-
tion, by utilizing inconsistency information between adjacent
Proceedings of the Thirtieth International Joint Conference on Artiﬁcial Intelligence (IJCAI-21)
737
Original faces Manipulated faces
Real video Fake video
Manipulation:
Deepfakes
Face2Face
FaceSwap
NeuralTextures
·
·
Crop face in 
each frame
Blend face into 
original frame
Figure 3: Overview of a typical video manipulation process.
frames with account of the whole face and the local criti-
cal areas. In this section, we ﬁrst introduce the preliminary
knowledge which helps to understand our motivation. Then
we describe the overall pipeline of the DIANet. And then we
will introduce the proposed CRM in more detail. Finally, we
introduce how the Classiﬁcation network gives the classiﬁca-
tion result.
3.1 Preliminary Knowledge
With recent advancement of techniques [DeepFakes, 2019;
Thies et al., 2016; FaceSwap, 2019; Yu et al., 2019; Yu et
al., 2020], it is possible for people to conduct facial expres-
sion transformation and face swapping automatically. The
most popular methods are Deepfakes [DeepFakes, 2019 ],
Face2Face [Thies et al., 2016 ] and FaceSwap [FaceSwap,
2019]. A typical video face manipulation process consists
of three steps: (1) Decompose the original video into frames.
Detect face in each frame and crop it. (2)Manipulate face im-
ages by the pretrained manipulation model. (3) Blend each
manipulated face back into the corresponding original frame.
Because the manipulation is operated on independent
frames, the natural variation of face in the original video is
destroyed. This results in micro dynamic jitters and inconsis-
tency across adjacent frames which are ignored by existing
detection methods.
3.2 Pipeline of DIANet
As shown in Figure 2, the proposed DIANet consists of
three modules: (1) Feature Extracting module. (2) Cross-
Reference module (CRM). (3) Classiﬁcation network. We
call the frame to be distinguished as the target frame. Firstly,
we select one adjacent frame as the reference frame and pre-
process these two frames. The preprocessing includes crop-
ing the whole face region and detecting the coordinates of
critical areas. All the following ”frames” refer to the face
region image in the corresponding frame. Secondly, the Fea-
ture Extracting module extracts feature representations of two
frames respectively. The Feature Extracting module is based
on ResNet [He et al., 2016]. There are ﬁve Bottleneck layers,
designated as layer1 to layer5. Each Bottleneck layer con-
sists of three convolutional layers with BatchNormalization
and ReLU. We take the feature map after Bottleneck layer5
as the output of the Feature Extracting module. The fea-
ture representations of the target and the reference frames are
marked as V1 and V2 respectively.
Thirdly, we calculate the inconsistency map X1 based on
feature representations V1 and V2 through the CRM. Finally,
the Classiﬁcation network gives the classiﬁcation result Y of
the target frame according to the inconsistency map X1. The
speciﬁc implementation of the CRM and the Classiﬁcation
network will be described in more detail as follows.
3.3 Cross-Reference Module (CRM)
As shown in Figure 2, the proposed CRM uses the feature rep-
resentations V1 and V2∈RC×H×W obtained by the Feature
Extracting module and the coordinates of four local critical
areas as input. It includes two branches: the Global Correla-
tion branch (GCB) and the Local Association branch (LAB).
The GCB uses features of whole faces in two frames to gen-
erate the structure similarity map W1. In contrast, the LAB
ﬁrst implements RoIPooling to obtain four local critical areas
features (i.e. two eyes, nose, mouth) with the same size, and
then calculate the local inconsistence features L1 which re-
ﬂects regional inconsistency of adjacent frames. In the end,
L1 are concatenated with W1 to generate the inconsistency
map X1, as the output of the CRM:
X1 = concatenate(W1, L1) (1)
Global Correlation Branch (GCB)
To explore the global long-range inconsistency information
between the input two frames, The GCB takes feature repre-
sentations of whole faces V1 and V2 as input. The procedure
of the GCB is illustrated in Figure 4(a). More speciﬁcally, we
ﬁrst compute the afﬁninty matrix A12 between V1 and V2:
A12 = VT
1 QV2 (2)
where V1 and V2 are ﬂattened to C×(W H). Q∈RC×C is the
weight matrix and can be implemented by a linear layer. As a
result, each entry of A12 reﬂects the similarity between each
row of VT
1 and each column of V2.
After obtaining the afﬁninty matrix A12, we compute at-
tention summaries Z12 for V1:
Z12 = V1A12 (3)
Then a convolution operation with N ﬁlters{ωi
G, bi
G}N
i=1
is performed for V1. For the generation of correspongding N
heatmaps, another group of ﬁlters{ωi
Z, bi
Z}N
i=1 is applied for
Z12. They are calculated as follows:
Gi
1 = V1ωi
G + bi
G, f or i = 1, 2, ..., N (4)
Ii
12 = Sof tmax(Z12ωi
Z + bi
Z), f or i = 1, 2, ..., N (5)
The heatmaps are utilized to perform channel-wise selec-
tion as follows:
I1 = concatenate(G1
1⊙ I 1
12, ..., GN
1 ⊙ IN
12) (6)
where′⊙′ denotes the element-wise multiply. In order to keep
consistent with the output size of the LAB, a maximum pool-
ing is performed:
W1 = M axP ool(I1) (7)
W1 represents the structure similarity map which reﬂects the
global inconsistency. The dimension of W1 is C×H′×W′.
Proceedings of the Thirtieth International Joint Conference on Artiﬁcial Intelligence (IJCAI-21)
738
Linear
(HW,HW)
𝑉1 𝑉2
𝐴12 = 𝑉1
𝑇𝑄𝑉2
𝑍12 = 𝑉1𝐴12
Conv
Conv
MaxPool
𝐶 × 𝐻 × 𝑊
Flatten to 
𝐶 × 𝐻𝑊
𝐶 × 𝐻𝑊
𝐶 × 𝐻𝑊
Conv,bn,ReLU,AveragePool
Fully-connected (512,1024)
Dropout,ReLU
Fully-connected (1024,1024)
Dropout,ReLU
Fully-connected (1024,2)
Softmax
[𝑝0, 𝑝1]
RoIPool
 RoIPool
𝑉1 𝑉24 Local areas 
coordinates
𝒓𝒊
𝒋: 𝟒 ×[C×H’×W’]
Conv
𝜃: 1 × 1 × 1
Conv
𝜑: 1 × 1 × 1
Conv
g: 1 × 1 × 1
(a)Global Correlation branch (b)Local Association branch (c) Classification network
𝟒 × [C×H’W’×1]
Add up to C×H’W’×1
Flatten back to
𝑳1: C×H’×W′
Flatten to
𝟒 × [C×H’W’×1]
𝑿1 = [𝐿1, 𝑊1]
𝑾1: 𝐶 × 𝐻′ × 𝑊′
𝑄
Figure 4: The details of Global Correlation branch(GCB), Local Association branch(LAB) and Classiﬁcation network.′⊗′ represents matrix
multiply.′⊕′ represents element-wise add.′⊙′ denotes the element-wise multiply.
Local Association Branch (LAB)
Face manipulation tools often produce different fake textures
at the same area in adjacent frames. As a result, fake tex-
tures of local areas are inconsistent. Motivated by this, we
design the LAB to mine inconsistency of independent criti-
cal areas across frames. The local semantic areas which the
LAB focuses on are two eyes, nose and mouth whose posi-
tions are extracted by RetinaFace [Deng et al., 2020 ] in the
preprocessing.
The procedure of the LAB is illustrated in the Figure 4(b).
For V1 and V2 whose dimension is C×H×W , we ﬁrst imple-
ment RoIPooling of four local semantic areas based on their
positions to obtain eight local representions rj
i with the same
dimension:
rj
i = RoIPool(Vi, lj) f or i = 1, 2, j = 1, 2, 3, 4 (8)
where lj is a four-dimension vector which represents coordi-
nates of area j. The dimension of rj
i is set as C×H′×W′.
Then we ﬂatten rj
i to C×H′W′×1 and concatenate these
four RoI features in axis-1 to get r1, r2∈RC×4H ′W ′×1 re-
spectively.
Next, the relationship matrix between r1 and r2 is calcu-
lated:
v = Sof tmax(r1ΩT
θ ΩφrT
2 ) (9)
where Ωθ and Ωφ represents that r1 and r2 pass through a
1×1×1 convolutional layer respectively and the dimension
of v is C×4H′W′×4H′W′.
Then the local discriminating features can be obtained:
r′
1 = r1 + Ωz(g(r1)v) (10)
Here the dimension of r′
1 is C×4H′W′×1. we split r′
1 into
four C×H′W′×1 matrixs and add them up to aC×H′W′×1
matrix. Finally, we ﬂatten this C×H′W′×1 matrix back to
C×H′×W′ as the local inconsistency information L1.
In summary, the GCB takes the whole face features as in-
put to calculate the structure similarity map W1, while the
LAB only focuses on the regional discriminating features to
capture local inconsistency information L1.
3.4 Classiﬁcation Network
W1 and L1 are concatenated together and sent into the Clas-
siﬁcation network for classiﬁcation. As shown in Figure 4(c),
the Classiﬁcation network consists of one convolutional layer
and three fully connected layers, equipped with BatchNor-
malization, average pooling, ReLU, Dropout and Softmax.
The speciﬁc size and parameter settings of every layer are
detailed in the ﬁgure. The output of the Classiﬁcation net-
work is a two dimensional vector [p0, p1] and the ﬁnal result
Y ∈ [0, 1]is calculated by p0/(p0 + p1). The closer Y is to 1,
the more likely the target frame has been manipulated.
In the training phase, we use cross-entropy (CE) loss:
LossCE(p, y)
= 1
2
∑1
i=0[yilog(pi) +
(1  yi)log(1  pi)] (11)
Where [p0, p1] is the output
of the Classiﬁcation network.
[y0, y1] is the ground truth of the input frames. If the input
frames are sampled from a real video, [y0, y1] = [0 , 1]. In
contrast, a fake video is labeled as [y0, y1] = [1, 0].
4 Experiments
4.1 Experiment Setup
Dataset Setting
To verify the effectiveness and generalization of the proposed
DIANet, we conduct experiments on multiple datasets: Face-
Forensics++ (FF++) [Rossler et al., 2019 ], Celeb-DeepFake
v2 (Celeb-DFv2) [Li et al., 2020b ] and DeepFake Detec-
tion Challenge preview (DFDC-preview) [Dolhansky et al. ,
2019]. FF++ is a large scale dataset consisting of 1000 real
videos that have been manipulated with four popular meth-
ods: Deepfakes (DF) [DeepFakes, 2019 ], Face2Face (F2F)
[Thies et al., 2016 ], FaceSwap (FS) [FaceSwap, 2019] and
NeuralTextures (NT) [Thies et al., 2019]. Celeb-DFv2 is an-
other large scale DeepFake video dataset with many differ-
ent subjects (e.g., ages, ethic groups, gender), including 590
real videos and 5639 fake videos with reduced visual arifacts.
DFDC-preview is a dataset for Facebook DeepFake Detection
Proceedings of the Thirtieth International Joint Conference on Artiﬁcial Intelligence (IJCAI-21)
739
Figure 5: Evaluation of different reference frame intervals. The met-
ric standard is frame-level AUC.
w/o eyes w/o nose w/o mouth all
AUC 94.54 94.58 94.90 95.23
Table 1: Evaluation of using four critical regions of the LAB on the
FF++ (LQ) dataset. The metric standard is frame-level AUC.
Challenge, including 855 real videos and 3618 fake videos.
Training and testing sets are divided according to the ofﬁcial
video lists respectively. All the characters in our illustrations
come from these public datasets. In the preprocessing, we use
OpenCV to extract each frame in the video. For each frame,
we detect the face region and four key points (two eyes, nose
and mouth) by RetinaFace [Deng et al., 2020].
Implementation Detail
The input images are resized to 3×224×224. The dimension
of the feature representation V1 and V2 is 256×29×29. The
output dimension of RoIPooling (i.e. the size of W1 and L1)
is 256×14×14. The GCB and LAB are trained with SGD.
The SGD optimizer is used with an initial learning rate of1×
10 3 with momentum of 0.9 and weight decay of 1× 10 4.
During training, the batchsize is set to 32.
4.2 Ablation Study
Ablation Study on Selection of Reference Frame
The DIANet takes two frames as input. One frame is called
the target frame, and another is called the reference frame.
After the target frame is determined, the selection of refer-
ence frame will affect the prediction result. The frame rate
of videos in datasets is 30 frames per second. We test differ-
ent selection intervals, from 1 frame to 30 frames. As shown
in Figure 5, in general, the performance is not very sensitive
to different selection intervals. The best effect is got in the
interval between 5 and 15 frames for different manipulation
types. On the one hand, if the interval between these two
frames is too close, the pixel change is too small to capture
the inconsistency information. On the other hand, if the in-
terval is long, the face may have a change in action. In order
to consider different kinds of manipulation types and get the
best balanced effect, we randomly select the reference frame
between 5 and 15, corresponding to 1/6 second and 1/2 sec-
ond respectively.
GCB LAB DF F2F FS NT
- - 98.60 94.02 97.46 83.51
✓ - 98.71 94.35 97.71 84.76
- ✓ 97.48 91.22 96.29 82.01
✓ ✓ 99.27 95.91 98.79 87.57
Table 2: Evaluation of the effectiveness of the GCB and the LAB on
the FF++ (LQ) dataset. The metric standard is frame-level AUC.
FF++(LQ) FF++(HQ)
Method Acc(%) AUC(%) Acc(%) AUC(%)
Steg.Features 55.98 - 70.97 -
LD-CNN 58.69 - 78.45 -
Constrained Conv 66.84 - 82.97 -
MesoNet 70.47 - 83.10 -
Xception 82.71 89.3 95.04 96.3
DSP-FW A - 59.2 - 56.9
Face X-ray - 61.6 - 87.4
F3-Net 86.89 93.3 97.31 98.1
Two-branch - 86.6 - 98.7
Ours 89.77 94.5 96.37 98.8
Table 3: Performance on the FF++ HQ and LQ dataset.
Ablation Study on Critical Regions
Since the manipulated textures are inconsistent at the same
area in adjacent frames, we design the LAB to explore the
association of several independent critical regions. The facial
expressions of characters are mainly determined by various
organs. Speaking needs movement of mouth and blinking
needs movement of eyes. The artifacts of mouth and eyes in
the manipulated video often spread to the nose area connected
with them. Thus we conduct experiments with these four re-
gions of the face (i.e. two eyes, nose, mouth). As shown in
Table 1, when the LAB uses all these four regions, AUC is the
highest. When we reduce any of them, the effect decreases in
varying degrees. This reﬂects that all the four regions have a
positive effect.
Ablation Study on Each Branch
As shown in Table 2, to verify the effectiveness of the CRM
with the GCB and the LAB, we compare four structures.
When both two branches are not added, the feature represen-
tation of the target frame is directly used for classiﬁcation.
In this situation, it only gains average AUC of 93.40%, sim-
ilar to common structures like MesoNet and Xception. Af-
ter adding the GCB, the performance shows a considerable
improvement. The AUC of each kind tampered video is in-
creased by 0.49% on average. Only using the LAB gets the
worst performance. This is because only features of eyes,
nose and mouth are used while the rest of the features are
discarded. However, when the local inconsistency is com-
bined with the global inconsistency, best improvement can be
achieved. The best results are obtained by adding all the two
branches. This demonstrates the effectiveness of the CRM
and mutual promotion of global and local inconsistencies.
Proceedings of the Thirtieth International Joint Conference on Artiﬁcial Intelligence (IJCAI-21)
740
Method Acc(%) AUC(%)
RNN 78.74 82.41
Xception 82.87 86.96
Ours 85.83 90.54
Table 4: Performance on the DFDC-preview dataset.
Test set
Method FF++(LQ) Celeb-DFv2
Two-stream - 53.8
MesoNet - 54.8
HeadPose - 54.6
Multi-task 62.0 54.3
Xception-RAW - 48.2
Xception-HQ 87.3 65.3
Xception-LQ - 65.5
DSP-FW A 62.0 64.6
Face X-ray 72.8 -
Ours 90.4 70.4
Table 5: Experiments of cross-quality and cross-dataset experi-
ments. The second column are models trained on FF++ (HQ) and
tested on FF++ (LQ). The third column are models trained on FF++
and tested on Celeb-DFv2. The metric standard is frame-level AUC.
4.3 Comparison with Recent Works
We ﬁrst conduct in-dataset experiments on FF++ and com-
pare with prior famous works such as MesoNet [Afchar et
al., 2018], Xception [Rossler et al., 2019] and Face X-ray [Li
et al., 2020a ]. To get a comprehensive evaluation, we report
both Accuracy (Acc) and Area Under Curve (AUC) of each
method. FF++ contains three grades of video quality: raw
qualtiy (RAW), high quality (HQ) and low quality (LQ). On
the RAW videos, almost all CNN-based methods including
ours can achieve quite high results (> 0.99), therefore it can
only have a slight improvment. However, on the HQ and LQ
videos, our method has a obvious improvment. As shown in
Table 3, our method gains the highest AUC of 98.8% on HQ
and 94.5% on LQ videos, even competitive with the latest al-
gorithms F3-Net[Qian et al., 2020 ] and Two-branch[Masi et
al., 2020].
Performance on DFDC-preview
We also conduct experiments on the latest DFDC-preview
dataset. As shown in Table 4. We reproduce the RNN struc-
ture according to the paper [Sabir et al., 2019]. Compared to
Xception and RNN, the DIANet gains the highest Accuracy
and AUC. This further proves the applicability of the DIANet.
Robustness to Video Quality
In real internet scenes, fake videos will be uploaded and
downloaded many times in the process of spreading, video
quality will be gradually reduced. Many manipulated arti-
facts are blurred and some noises are introduced with the
decrease of image quality. This will misleads the extracted
features and leads to wrong judgment. As shown in Table
3, the DIANet performs better than previous methods on the
LQ videos, which demonstartes our method has stronger de-
tection capability for heavily low quality videos. In addition,
we use the models trained on a certain video quality to de-
tect videos of other qualities. As shown in the second column
of Table 5, part of methods like DSP-FW A and Face X-ray,
when they are trained on high quality videos and tested on low
quality videos, their performance decreased seriously. Their
AUC drops below 75%, and the accuracy will be close to ran-
dom judgment. These results reﬂect that the features con-
cerned by these existing methods are easily to be destroyed
by the degradation of image quality. Compared with them,
the DIANet still maintains considerable detection ability in
the cross-quality experiments. This shows that the global and
local inconsistencies are more robust to video quality.
Robustness to Unknown Techniques
We use Celeb-DFv2 dataset for testing generalization ability
of the proposed DIANet and do a more comprehensive com-
parison with existing works. We use four types of manipula-
tion videos in FF++ to train models and test them on Celeb-
DFv2 directly. AUC score is used as the metric for evalu-
ating our approach. The third column of Table 5 shows the
performance of existing methods and the DIANet in spotting
fake videos on Celeb-DFv2. Results show that the DIANet
reaches an AUC score of70.4% on the testing set provided in
Celeb-DFv2 and outperforms all the existing works includ-
ing Xception, MesoNet and DSP-FW A. According to the re-
sults in Table 5, when current models trained on a speciﬁc
dataset detect some fake videos utilizing various unknown
techniques, their effect will be greatly reduced. This reﬂects
cross-dataset detection is still a challenging task.
5 Conclusion
Motivated by that the inconsistent problem of fake videos has
not received enough attention in existing face manipulation
video detection methods, in this work we propose the DIANet
to explore the inter-frame inconsistency information. The
GCB and the LAB in the CRM are adopted to integrate both
the global and local inconsistencies. We conducted exten-
sive experiments on popular datasets (i.e., FaceF orensics++,
DFDC-preview and Celeb-DFv2). The results demonstrate
the effectiveness of the CRM. Compared with existing meth-
ods, the DIANet obtains competitive performance on various
qualities of fake videos and have strong robustness to degra-
dation of video quality and unseen manipulation techniques.
The inconsistency is an import characteristic of fake videos,
which still has a lot of mining space in the future to improve
the detection performance.
Acknowledgements
This work is supported by the National Key Research and
Development Program of China (2018YFB0804203), the
National Nature Science Foundation of China (62022076,
U1936210, 62032006), the China Postdoctoral Science Foun-
dation (2020M682035),the Anhui Postdoctoral Research Ac-
tivities Foundation (2020B436), the Youth Innovation Pro-
motion AssociationChinese Academy of Sciences (2017209),
and the Fundamental Research Funds for the Central Univer-
sities under Grant WK3480000011.
Proceedings of the Thirtieth International Joint Conference on Artiﬁcial Intelligence (IJCAI-21)
741